we begin with the latest in the conflict
in Gaza where it's been reported that
the US has carried out its first airdrop
of aid for the territory thousands of
meals have been parachuted in by three
military planes that follows a pledge on
Friday by President Biden meanwhile
Egyptian sources say talks on trying to
secure a ceasefire in Gaza are due to
resume in Cairo on Sunday it's
understood there has been some progress
but the violence has been continuing at
least 13 Palestinians including a medic
are reported to have been killed by an
Israeli air strike near a hospital and a
United Nations team visiting gaza's
biggest hospital has found that many
Palestinians who were injured as lorries
were delivering Aid on Thursday were
wounded by gunshots American officials
have confirmed that the US military has
carried out its first airdrop of
humanitarian Aid into Gaza let's take a
look at these pictures here you can see
US military planes flying over Dar Al
Bala in the the central Gaza Strip
American officials say over 35,000 amals
were dropped by Parachute it comes after
a promise by President Biden on Friday
following the deaths of 112 Palestinians
during a rush on an aid Convoy on
Thursday let's get more on this now from
our Washington correspondent will Vernon
will good to see you good morning to you
there in DC tell us more about what US
officials have been
saying that's right we received the
statement um from the US military saying
that this first aird drop has been
carried out that was done uh in
coordination together uh with the
Jordanian Air Force uh some C130
aircraft uh dropping over 38,000 meals
along the coastline of Gaza uh say the
US military now this will not be the
first this will be part of an ongoing
Mission there's expected uh to be many
of these us officials say Israel is
supportive of the mission and it's being
carefully planned uh to ensure that
there aren't any civilian casualties on
the ground because this is a a very
complex this is in fact an actually
actually a very inefficient uh way of
delivering Aid getting Aid in by trucks
via land routes is actually um much more
much simpler and much more efficient uh
so I think the fact that the US has
opted for this method not only uh shows
how serious the humanitarian crisis is
in Gaza uh but it also uh I think shows
that uh the US wants to send a message
that more aid needs to get in by land
and indeed in that statement from the US
military today it says these air drops
are part of a sustained effort to get
more Aid into Gaza including by
expanding the flow of Aid through land
corridors and routs will I want to pick
up on what you mentioned there this this
slight nuanced shift in the US position
because America has been supportive
generally speaking of Israeli activity
but this is a change in tone and this
promised by President Biden on Friday
was a shift in that us position what's
the trajectory of this do you
think that's right I mean we've we've
been hearing a kind of increasing tone
of exasperation I think from President
Biden from other uh White House
officials in recent weeks um recently
President Biden said he thought uh
Israel's military operation in Gaza was
over the top uh recently he said that uh
the the rougher uh Israel's plans to
launch an offense into the gazen city of
Rafa uh shouldn't go ahead unless
careful planning uh took place to ensure
that no civilian casualties uh that
there were no civilian casualties and
also yesterday during President Biden's
meeting with the Italian Prime Minister
we saw him say that only a handful of
Aid trucks were getting in uh whereas it
should be you know many more than much
more than that uh so I think you know
there has been uh there has been some
frustration uh but also remember it is
an election year here a particularly
closely thought uh fought uh election
campaign particularly polarizing at
least it's shaping up to be that way and
Israel Gaza is becoming an election
issue here and President Biden has to
walk a very tricky tight rope on the one
hand he has to ensure that the US is is
supporting a key Ally Israel on the
other hand he has to uh make sure he's
not alienating progressives in his own
party uh also putting off traditional
voters and we saw that a few days ago uh
in the state of Michigan when a Democrat
primary election was held there over
100,000 people in Michigan actually
voted uncommitted so most of those were
a protest vote against President Biden
for uh his support of Israel of course
the US uh hasn't uh called for an
immediate ceasefire like many people uh
many of those voters in Michigan for
example uh would like President Biden to
so that I think was um a stark warning
and a concern
I think sign uh for the White House for
the Biden campaign that come November uh
this could become a problem among key
voters in those crucial swing states
such as Michigan okay will very good to
get that take from you will ver
Washington thank you